they would have gone three days journey
into the wilderness encountered the
bitter springs of tomorrow
we went 33 kilometres inland driving 33
kilometres is about a three-day hike and
journey through the desert we came to
these bitter springs we went down and
touched it to our tongue
and it was so repulsive for four hours
later you could still taste it it was it
was horrible the Bible talks about the
bitter springs of Mara Mara means bitter
in Hebrew then the Bible says then they
went on and they eventually came to the
70 palms and twelve springs of elim we
roll up to this group of palm trees and
twelve Springs of water bubbling up out
of the ground traveling further north in
the direction of the mountain the pair
come upon an awesome site my gosh I look
over there and there's caves that he
look like Egyptian caves to me blocked
off with this high barbed wire fence and
to me at the caves of Moses or probably
where Jethro came from it's very
interesting to note that this city is
known in history as the city of Madyan
presently known as al bat but if you
look at history flavas Josephus and
other historians talk about the highest
mountain near the city of Madyan is
being the real Mount Sinai well this
would place Jay below laws as the number
one candidate according to the ancient
historians from 2000 years ago from 250
BC as being the real Mount Sinai
the bitter springs of Marah the 70 palms
of elam the 12 springs of elim they were
like bread crumbs leading you to a
location it was that simple I guess one
of the most intriguing things is in an
area that is close to the split rock
there are footprints that have been
carved all over the rocks when you pair
that up with the scripture in
Deuteronomy where Moses says to the
children of Israel you're now about to
go in and possess the land and wherever
you place the soles of your feet God
will give you the land now that's a very
interesting thing because if you are a
wandering people
how would you mark out places that you
had been if the title deed to your land
is wherever you place the soles of your
feet is it interesting that there are so
many little feet it's very compelling
it's a full ten years after Bob and
Larry's adventure that both teams get
together to share their stories after
Larry and I had been to the mountain we
discovered that there was another couple
of people or a whole family that had
been to Jay below laws and had filmed it
and I got so excited I called him and it
was 2:30 in the morning in Saudi Arabia
and I'm sorry for doing that to y'all
but I called him at 2:30 in the morning
and I said hey there was this excited
wild man on the other end of the phone
then I heard about these people that
found all this stuff more than what we
saw it's off but actually had nothing
but admiration for what they did to take
what we did to the next level to further
document it and to be so willing to
share it with the world really knowing
that they were going back to the country
and had access to some of these areas
was just what an opportunity
to go to the traditional Mount Sinai
what you find there is a circus event a
monastery built on top of what would
have been a holy site Egyptians selling
their wares it's comical actually a
mountain that doesn't fit the biblical
description as a police investigator you
know evidence isn't proof doesn't prove
anything it's the interpretation of
proof and it has to be the proper
interpretation of proof frankly until
credentialed archaeologist has come in
documented dug it recorded it written
about do we know for sure I don't think
so
is it the best place right now without a
doubt that's where you have to believe a
little bit but because you can prove
that something is true in there lends
credibility to the document and I think
that in this situation we have a
monument to many miracles that occurred
probably in the Old Testament more
miracles were performed at not Sinai
than any other place and what's so
impressive me about this site is the way
it is preserved it's perfectly preserved
in time we have more facts going we have
more religious history and academic
history going to this site than
virtually any other site and some
scholars will say since they haven't
found any evidence that's a traditional
Mount on the Sinai Peninsula that the
exodus never occurred lava to include
logical conclusion but look at the
evidence in Saudi Arabia gets all over
the place it looks like the movie set
where they made the movie The Ten
Commandments had just abandoned
my son question mark in the Bible what
is that doing you stood on top of the
tradition
just didn't match the biblical
description
correct boss inside it's easy to find
around well I like a little physical
reality this goes right through the sea
and you look at the great archeological
discoveries of the world and they're
found by people that are adventurers
when you go there you can read the Bible
like a met they were like breadcrumbs
leading you to a location map sign I
should be in Saudi Arabia Mountain
culture Bala laws mountain ranges going
off in every direction Jebel Musa to the
mountain of Moses there are none better
the color of the one
the Saudis to put offensive and of
course they know exactly what they have
something real and gives the proof I'm
kind of like a doubting Thomas of all
that stuff the world needs to know that
this is not an emergency
it's perfectly preserved in kind real is
it the best place right now without a
doubt we thought that we might be
standing on holy ground why can't we
ever put our hands on any kind of
artifact that's gonna show that the
oldest of the stories of the Bible were
truth if I was a district attorney I'd
certainly prosecute this mountain is
being Mount Sinai Larry looks over and
lets me right in the eye and said I
think we're making history
the evidence is overwhelming the table
along
you